installed python  [System](/System/Library/Frameworks/Python.framework/Versions/2.7/)


- **Python is Interpreted** − Python is processed at runtime by the interpreter. You do not need to compile your program before executing it. This is similar to PERL and PHP.

- **Python is Interactive** − You can actually sit at a Python prompt and interact with the interpreter directly to write your programs.

- **Python is Object-Oriented** − Python supports Object-Oriented style or technique of programming that encapsulates code within objects.

- **Python is a Beginner's Language** − Python is a great language for the beginner-level programmers and supports the development of a wide range of applications from simple text processing to WWW browsers to games.


# Base

## Python Identifiers
A Python identifier is a name used to identify a variable, function, class, module or other object. An identifier starts with a letter A to Z or a to z or an underscore (*_*) followed by zero or more letters, underscores and digits (0 to 9).

Python does not allow punctuation characters such as @, $, and % within identifiers.

Python is a case sensitive programming language. Thus, *Manpower* and *manpower* are two different identifiers in Python.
Here are naming conventions for Python identifiers −

- Python Class names start with an uppercase letter. All other identifiers start with a lowercase letter.

- Starting an identifier with a single leading underscore indicates that the identifier is **private** identifier.

- Starting an identifier with two leading underscores indicates a strongly **private** identifier.

- If the identifier also ends with two trailing underscores, the identifier is a **language-defined** special name.

## Python Reserved Words
The following list shows the Python keywords. These are reserved words and you cannot use them as constant or variable or any other identifier names. All the Python keywords contain lowercase letters only.

*and as assert break class continue def del elif else except False finally for from global if import in is lambda None nonlocal not or pass raise return True try while with yield*


## Python List Data Type
A Python list contains items separated by commas and enclosed within square brackets ([]).
```
list = [ 'abcd', 786 , 2.23, 'john', 70.2 ]
tinylist = [123, 'john']

print (list)            # Prints complete list
print (list[0])         # Prints first element of the list
print (list[1:3])       # Prints elements starting from 2nd till 3rd 
print (list[2:])        # Prints elements starting from 3rd element
print (tinylist * 2)    # Prints list two times
print (list + tinylist) # Prints concatenated lists
```


### Iterate over list
```
for i in list:
    print(i)

for i in range(len(list)):
    print(list[i])
```

### Built-in List Functions & Methods
Python includes the following list functions −

| Function | Description                     |
| ----- |---------------------------------|
| cmp(list1, list2) | Compares elements of both lists |
| len(list)|Gives the total length of the list.|
| max(list)|Returns item from the list with max value.|
|min(list)|Returns item from the list with min value.|
|list(seq)|Converts a tuple into list.|

### Python includes following list methods

| Method |  Description |
| ----- |------|
|list.append(obj)|Appends object obj to list|
|list.count(obj)|Returns count of how many times obj occurs in list|
|list.extend(seq)|Appends the contents of seq to list|
|list.index(obj)|Returns the lowest index in list that obj appears|
|list.insert(index, obj)|Inserts object obj into list at offset index|
|list.pop(obj=list[-1])|Removes and returns last object or obj from list|
|list.remove(obj)|Removes object obj from list|
|list.reverse()|Reverses objects of list in place|
|list.sort([func])|Sorts objects of list, use compare func if given|



## Python Tuple Data Type
Python tuple is another sequence data type that is similar to a list. A Python tuple consists of a number of values separated by commas. Unlike lists, however, tuples are enclosed within parentheses.

The main differences between lists and tuples are: Lists are enclosed in brackets ( [ ] ) and their elements and size can be changed, while tuples are enclosed in parentheses ( ( ) ) and cannot be updated. Tuples can be thought of as read-only lists. For example −
```
tuple = ( 'abcd', 786 , 2.23, 'john', 70.2  )
tinytuple = (123, 'john')

print (tuple)               # Prints the complete tuple
print (tuple[0])            # Prints first element of the tuple
print (tuple[1:3])          # Prints elements of the tuple starting from 2nd till 3rd 
print (tuple[2:])           # Prints elements of the tuple starting from 3rd element
print (tinytuple * 2)       # Prints the contents of the tuple twice
print (tuple + tinytuple)   # Prints concatenated tuples
```

## Python Ranges
Python *range()* is an in-built function in Python which returns a sequence of numbers starting from 0 and increments to 1 until it reaches a specified number.

We use range() function with for and while loop to generate a sequence of numbers. Following is the syntax of the function:
`range(start, stop, step)`

Example
```
for i in range(5):
  print(i)
```

## Python Dictionary
Python dictionaries are kind of hash table type. They work like associative arrays or hashes found in Perl and consist of key-value pairs. A dictionary key can be almost any Python type, but are usually numbers or strings. Values, on the other hand, can be any arbitrary Python object.

Dictionaries are enclosed by curly braces ({ }) and values can be assigned and accessed using square braces ([]). For example −
```
dict = {}
dict['one'] = "This is one"
dict[2]     = "This is two"

tinydict = {'name': 'john','code':6734, 'dept': 'sales'}


print (dict['one'])       # Prints value for 'one' key
print (dict[2])           # Prints value for 2 key
print (tinydict)          # Prints complete dictionary
print (tinydict.keys())   # Prints all the keys
print (tinydict.values()) # Prints all the values
```


## Python - Date & Time
There is a popular time module available in Python which provides functions for working with times, and for converting between representations.

**asctime**  - function for formatting
```
#!/usr/bin/python
import time;                               # This is required to include time module.

ticks = time.time()                        # returns the current system time in ticks since epoch start (00:00:00 hrs, 01.01.1970)
localtime = time.localtime(ticks)          # Returns struct_time holding Local current time
formattedTime = time.asctime( localtime )  # formats
```

### TimeTuple / struct_time
Many of Python's time functions handle time as a tuple of 9 numbers:

| Index | 	Field |	Values | struct_time field |
| ----- | ----| -----| ---- |
|0	|4-digit year	|2008|tm_year|
|1	|Month	|1 to 12|tm_mon|
|2	|Day	|1 to 31|tm_mday|
|3	|Hour	|0 to 23|tm_hour|
|4	|Minute	|0 to 59|tm_min|
|5	|Second	|0 to 61 (60 or 61 are leap-seconds)|tm_sec|
|6	|Day of Week	|0 to 6 (0 is Monday)|tm_wday|
|7	|Day of year	|1 to 366 (Julian day)|tm_yday|
|8	|Daylight savings	|-1, 0, 1, -1 means library determines DST|tm_isdst|

The above tuple is equivalent to **struct_time** structure


# Python - Functions
A function is a block of organized, reusable code that is used to perform a single, related action. Functions provide better modularity for your application and a high degree of code reusing.

### Defining a Function
You can define functions to provide the required functionality. Here are simple rules to define a function in Python.

- Function blocks begin with the keyword **def** followed by the function name and parentheses ( ( ) ).

- Any input parameters or arguments should be placed within these parentheses. You can also define parameters inside these parentheses.

- The first statement of a function can be an optional statement - the documentation string of the function or docstring.

- The code block within every function starts with a colon (:) and is indented.

- The statement *return* [expression] exits a function, optionally passing back an expression to the caller. A return statement with no arguments is the same as *return None*.

### Example
```
def functionname( parameters ):
   "function_docstring"
   function_suite
   return [expression]
```

### Function Arguments
You can call a function by using the following types of formal arguments −

- Required arguments  - arguments passed to a function in correct positional order
- Keyword arguments   - the caller identifies the arguments by the parameter name.
- Default arguments   - argument that assumes a default value if a value is not provided in the function call
- Variable-length arguments

### The Anonymous Functions 
```
# Function definition is here
sum = lambda arg1, arg2: arg1 + arg2;

# Now you can call sum as a function
print "Value of total : ", sum( 10, 20 )
```


# Python - Modules
A module allows you to logically organize your Python code. Grouping related code into a module makes the code easier to understand and use. A module is a Python object with arbitrarily named attributes that you can bind and reference.

Simply, a module is a file consisting of Python code. A module can define functions, classes and variables. A module can also include runnable code.
```
import module1[, module2[,... moduleN]

from modname import name1[, name2[, ... nameN]]
# example  :  from fib import fibonacci
# example2 : from modname import *
```

# Locating Modules
When you import a module, the Python interpreter searches for the module in the following sequences −

- The current directory.
- If the module isn't found, Python then searches each directory in the shell variable PYTHONPATH.
- If all else fails, Python checks the default path. On UNIX, this default path is normally /usr/local/lib/python/.

The module search path is stored in the system module sys as the **sys.path** variable. The sys.path variable contains the current directory, PYTHONPATH, and the installation-dependent default.


# Files I/O

### Printing to the Screen
The *print(...)* function or *print* statement are the simplest way to produce output

### Reading Keyboard Input
The *raw_input([prompt])* function reads one line from standard input and returns it as a string (removing the trailing newline).

The *input([prompt])* function is equivalent to raw_input, except that it assumes the input is a valid Python expression and returns the evaluated result to you.

## Opening and Closing Files
You can open file using Python's built-in **open(file_name [, access_mode][, buffering])** function. This function creates a file object, which would be utilized to call other support methods associated with it.



# Exceptions Handling

 todo: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python/python_exceptions.htm

```
try:
   You do your operations here;
   ......................
except ExceptionI:
   If there is ExceptionI, then execute this block.
except ExceptionII:
   If there is ExceptionII, then execute this block.
   ......................
else:
   If there is no exception then execute this block. 
```

Here are few important points about the above-mentioned syntax

- A single *try* statement can have multiple except statements. This is useful when the try block contains statements that may throw different types of exceptions.
- You can also provide a generic *except* clause, which handles any exception.
- After the *except* clause(s), you can include an *else* clause. The code in the *else* block executes if the code in the *try:* block does not raise an exception.
- The *else* block is a good place for code that does not need the try: block's protection.


# Raising Exceptions

You can raise exceptions in several ways by using the raise statement. The general syntax for the raise statement is as follows −

`raise [Exception [, args [, traceback]]]`

Here, Exception is the type of exception (for example, NameError) and argument is a value for the exception argument. The argument is optional; if not supplied, the exception argument is None.

The final argument, _traceback_, is also optional (and rarely used in practice), and if present, is the traceback object used for the exception.

Example
An exception can be a string, a class or an object. Most of the exceptions that the Python core raises are classes, with an argument that is an instance of the class. Defining new exceptions is quite easy and can be done as follows −

```
def functionName( level ):
   if level <1:
      raise Exception(level)
      # The code below to this would not be executed
      # if we raise the exception
   return level
```





